= Master May I?

=== Clean, simple and flexible model based authorization designed to work with AuthLogic and InheritedResources.

=== If these docs looks all wanky, then be sure you're viewing them on the rdoc.info site: http://rdoc.info/projects/tsaleh/master-may-i

== Overview

Master May I is not an Access Control List system. In fact, it has absolutely
no opinions about how you structure your underlying business rules. All it does
is gives you a consistent and flexible pattern for accessing those rules.

There are two main components:

===  The Model Layer

{MasterMayI Master May I} adds query methods to all your models, which can be
used to determine who's allowed to do what. {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions
Learn more.}

* {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::ClassMethods#creatable_by? +Model.creatable_by?(user)+} 
  and 
  {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::ClassMethods#creatable? +Model.creatable?+} 
* {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#readable_by? +@model.readable_by?(user)+} 
  and 
  {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#readable? +@model.readable?+} 
* {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#editable_by? +@model.editable_by?(user)+} 
  and 
  {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#editable? +@model.editable?+} 
* {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#destroyable_by? +@model.destroyable_by?(user)+} 
  and 
  {MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods#destroyable? +@model.destroyable?+} 

These are just methods (that default to always returning true), so customizing
the rules is as easy as overriding the methods:

  class Note < ActiveRecord::Base
    def self.creatable_by?(user)
      user and user.administrator?
    end
  end

If you call
{MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::ClassMethods#records_creating_user
+records_creating_user+} in your model, then the user from the Authlogic
UserSession is automatically stored whenever a record is created.
{MasterMayI::ActiveRecordExtensions::ClassMethods#records_creating_user Learn
more.}

  class Note < ActiveRecord::Base
    records_creating_user
    
    def self.creatable_by?(user)
      user and created_by?(user)
    end
  end

=== The Controller Layer

If you include {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions} in your ApplicationController, MasterMayI adds a few utility methods to your ApplicationController:

* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#current_user +current_user+}
* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#logged_in? +logged_in?+}
* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#require_user +require_user+}
* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#deny_access +deny_access+}
* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#store_location +store_location+}
* {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions#redirect_back_or +redirect_back_or url+}

MasterMayI will also include the
{MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions::ClassMethods#protects_restful_actions
+protects_restful_actions+} controller class method, which integrates with
InheritedResources in order to automatically check with the model in a set of
before filters.  {MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions::ClassMethods#protects_restful_actions
Learn more.}

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    include MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions
    ...
  end

  class NotesController < InheritedResources::Base
    protects_restful_actions
  end

{MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions Learn more.}

== Testing with Shoulda

Master May I comes with a strong set of Shoulda macros:

...for your {ActiveSupport::TestCase unit tests}:

  class NoteTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
    setup :activate_authlogic
  
    should_record_creating_user :as => "user"
  
    should_be_creatable_by("boy named sue-create") { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-create")  }
    should_not_be_creatable_by("everyone")         { nil }
  
    context "a note" do
      setup { @note = Factory(:note) }
      subject { @note }
  
      should_be_readable_by("boy named sue-read")       { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-read")    }
      should_be_editable_by("boy named sue-edit")       { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-edit")    }
      should_be_destroyable_by("boy named sue-destroy") { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-destroy") }
  
      should_not_be_readable_by(   "everyone") { nil }
      should_not_be_editable_by(   "everyone") { nil }
      should_not_be_destroyable_by("everyone") { nil }
    end
  end

...and your {ActionController::TestCase functional tests}:

  class NotesControllerTest < ActionController::TestCase
    setup :activate_authlogic
    
    as_a_logged_in_user do
      who_can_manage :notes do
        context "on GET to /notes/new" do
          setup { get :new }
          should_not_set_the_flash
          should_render_template :new
        end
        ...

== Installation

Master May I is hosted on gemcutter, so installation is as easy as:

  sudo gem install master_may_i

It relies heavily on Authlogic, and the controller module uses the +resource+
and +resource_class+ methods from InheritedResources.  Finally, the before filters
expect there to be the a url helper named login_url:

  map.login "/login", :controller => :user_session, :action => :new

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Tammer Saleh. See LICENSE for details.
